sing o barren you who have not born
break forth into singing and cry aloud
you who have not labored with child for
more are the children of the desolate
than the children of the married woman
enlarge the place of your tent and let
them stretch out the curtains of your
dwellings do not spare lengthen your
cords and strengthen your stakes for you
shall expand to the right and to the
left and your descendants will inherit
the nations and make the desolate cities
inhabited do not feel for you will not
be ashamed neither be disgraced for you
will not be put to shame for you will
forget the shame of your youth and will
not remember the reproach of your
widowhood anymore for your maker is your
husband the Lord of Hosts is his name
and your redeemer is the Holy One of
Israel he is called the god of the whole
earth for the Lord has called you like a
woman Forsaken and grieved in spirit
like a youthful wife when you were
refused says your God for a mere moment
I have forsaken you
Mercy's I will gather you with a little
wrath I hid my face from you for a
moment
but with everlasting kindness I will
have mercy on you
says the Lord your Redeemer for this is
like the waters of Noah to me for as I
have sworn that the waters of Noah would
no longer cover the earth so have I
sworn that I would not be angry with you
nor rebuke you for the mountains shall
depart and the hills be removed but my
kindness shall not depart from you nor
shall my covenant of peace be removed
says the Lord who has mercy on you
o you afflicted one tossed with tempest
and not comforted behold I will lay your
stones with colorful gems and lay your
foundations with sapphires I will make
your pinnacles of rubies your gates of
crystal and all your walls of precious
stones all your children shall be taught
by the Lord and great shall be the peace
of your children in righteousness you
shall be established you shall be far
from oppression for you shall not fear
and from terror for it shall not come
near him indeed they shall surely
assemble but not because of me whoever
assembles against you shall fall for
your sake behold I have created the
blacksmith who blows the coals in the
fire who brings forth an instrument for
his work and I have created the spoiling
to destroy
weapon formed against you shall prosper
and every tongue which rises against you
in judgment you shall condemn this is
the heritage of the servants of the Lord
and their righteousness is from me
you